Adding jumpstart documentation and scripts for Platform9 Managed Kubernetes cluster to connect with Azure Arc (#800)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/pf9/pf9_bareos/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Platform9 Managed BareOS Kubernetes (PMK) cluster"
linkTitle: "Platform9 Managed BareOS Kubernetes (PMK) cluster"
weight: 1
description: >
---

## Deploy a Platform9 Managed Kubernetes cluster and connect it to Azure Arc

> - The following document will guide on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster with [Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK)](https://platform9.com/managed-kubernetes/) and have it as a connected Azure Arc Kubernetes resource.
> - With PMK, you can have your clusters deployed on-premises, in public clouds, or at the edge. In this document, we'll explain the steps on how to create an **on-premise [BareOS](https://platform9.com/docs/kubernetes/bareos-what-is-bareos) cluster** using **PMK** and connect it to **Microsoft Azure Arc**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The following document will guide on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster with [Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK)](https://platform9.com/managed-kubernetes/) and have it as a connected Azure Arc Kubernetes resource. With PMK, you can have your clusters deployed on-premises, in public clouds, or at the edge. In this document, we'll explain the steps on how to create an **on-premise [BareOS](https://platform9.com/docs/kubernetes/bareos-what-is-bareos) cluster** using **PMK** and connect it to **Microsoft Azure Arc**.
```

## Prerequisites

- An Ubuntu 20.04 installed physical machine or VM. In this scenario, we would be using single node kubernetes cluster installation. This machine would also act as our management host.

- The [kubectl](https://platform9.com/learn/tutorials/kubectl) executable binary for local cluster management. If you would want to have a seperate host for cluster management, follow the below steps to [install kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/#install-using-native-package-management) on it.

  ```shell
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl
  sudo curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg
  echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
  ```

>   > **Note:** The *kubectl* package is installed from Kubernetes repository, hence the Google Cloud public signing key need to be downloaded to enable the repository.
> 
>   > **Note: All PMK cluster nodes would have kubectl installed once cluster is deployed.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **Note: The *kubectl* package is installed from the Kubernetes repository, hence the Google Cloud public signing key need to be downloaded to enable the repository. Note: All PMK cluster nodes would have kubectl installed once the cluster is deployed.**
```

  - Click to add a cluster to the Management Plane.

  ![Screenshot of Adding Cluster](./04.png)

  - Create a cluster from the nodes onboarded to the Management Plane.

  ![Screenshot of Creating One Click Cluster](./05.png)

  - Enter the cluster name and k8s version. Submit the page and it will trigger the cluster creation on the node.

  ![Screenshot of Cluster name entry](./06.png)

  - The cluster should get created in a few minutes and the status should be reported as **Healthy** and **Online**.

  ![Screenshot of Cluster Created](./07.png)

### Connect the cluster to Microsoft Azure Arc

- Clone the [azure_arc](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc) Jumpstart repository and change to the pf9 script directory.

  ```shell
  git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
  cd azure_arc/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/pf9
  ```

- Set the variables according to your Azure service principal name and Azure environment in the *pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh* script.

  ![Screenshot of Exporting values](./08.png)

>   > **Note: The values can referenced from the service principal output.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **Note: The values can be referenced from the service principal output.**
```

> - Clone the [azure_arc](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc) Jumpstart repository and change to the pf9 script directory.
> 
>   ```shell
>   git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
>   cd azure_arc/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/pf9
>   ```
> 
> - Set the variables according to your Azure service principal name and Azure environment in the *pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh* script.
> 
>   ![Screenshot of Exporting values](./08.png)
> 
>   > **Note: The values can referenced from the service principal output.**
> 
> - Set the KUBECONFIG variable for connecting to the K8s cluster. The kubeconfig file for the cluster is available for download from the Management Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clone the [azure_arc](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc) Jumpstart repository and change to the pf9 script directory.

  ```shell
  git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
  cd azure_arc/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/pf9
  ```

- Set the variables according to your Azure service principal name and Azure environment in the *pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh* script.

  ![Screenshot of Exporting values](./08.png)

  > **Note: The values can be referenced from the service principal output.**

- Set the KUBECONFIG variable for connecting to the K8s cluster. The kubeconfig file for the cluster is available for download from the Management Plane.
```

  ![Screenshot to Download Kubeconfig](./09.png)

  - An example output is shown below for setting the _KUBECONFIG_ variable;

  ```shell

>   export KUBECONFIG=<Enter the kubeconfig file path>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  export KUBECONFIG=~/path/to/config/file
```

---
type: docs
title: "Platform9 Managed BareOS Kubernetes (PMK) cluster"
linkTitle: "Platform9 Managed BareOS Kubernetes (PMK) cluster"
weight: 1
description: >
---

## Deploy a Platform9 Managed Kubernetes cluster and connect it to Azure Arc

> - The following document will guide on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster with [Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK)](https://platform9.com/managed-kubernetes/) and have it as a connected Azure Arc Kubernetes resource.
> - With PMK, you can have your clusters deployed on-premises, in public clouds or at the edge. In this document, we'll explain the steps on how to create an **on-premise [BareOS](https://platform9.com/docs/kubernetes/bareos-what-is-bareos) cluster** using **PMK** and connect it to **Microsoft Azure Arc**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following document will guide on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster with [Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK)](https://platform9.com/managed-kubernetes/) and have it as a connected Azure Arc Kubernetes resource.
With PMK, you can have your clusters deployed on-premises, in public clouds, or at the edge. In this document, we'll explain the steps on how to create an **on-premise [BareOS](https://platform9.com/docs/kubernetes/bareos-what-is-bareos) cluster** using **PMK** and connect it to **Microsoft Azure Arc**.
```

Author: The changes have been commited.

## Prerequisites

> - An Ubuntu 20.04 installed physical machine or VM. For this demonstration, we would be using single node kubernetes cluster installation. This machine would also act as our management host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An Ubuntu 20.04 installed physical machine or VM. In this scenario, we would be using single node kubernetes cluster installation. This machine would also act as our management host.
```

Author: The changes have been commited.

  Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  az --version
  ```

- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) version 3+ , to install the Azure Arc agents on the cluster.

  ```shell
  curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/main/scripts/get-helm-3 | sudo bash
  ```

- Create Azure service principal (SP)
  To be able to complete the scenario and its related automation, Azure service principal assigned with the *Contributor* role is required.

  For creating the service principal, first login to your Azure account.

  ```shell
  az login
  ```

  Login by opening the [Microsoft devicelogin page](https://microsoft.com/devicelogin) on browser and enter the code to authenticate.

  An example output of successful authentication is shown below;

  ![Screenshot of MSFT Device Login](./01.png)

  Once you have a successful login, create the Azure service principal (SP).

  ```shell
  az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<service-principal-name>" --role contributor
  ```

  See below example of creating a service principal.

>   ![Screenshot of Creating Service Principal](./02.png)

Reviewer: Please align the service principle creation with the rest of the Jumpstart scenarios. See [example](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/cluster_api/capi_azure/_index.md#prerequisites)

Author: Changes done.

  > *Note: The Jumpstart scenarios are designed with as much ease of use in-mind and adhering to security-related best practices whenever possible. It is optional but highly recommended to scope the service principal to a [specific Azure subscription and resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) as well considering using a [less privileged service principal account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).*

  > **Note: Take a note of the *appId*, *password* and *tenant*, as that need to be set in an environment file later.**

> - Create an Azure resource group where you want the PMK cluster to show up.

Reviewer: This should be part of the automation

Author: Moved this to pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh script.

> - Create an Azure resource group where you want the PMK cluster to show up.
> 
>   ```shell
>   az group create -l <Azure Region> -n <resource group name>
>   ```
> 
>   See below example of creating a resource group.
>   ![Screenshot of Creating Resource Group](./03.png)
> 
>   You can verify it from the Azure portal.
>   ![Screenshot of Resource Group](./20.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create an Azure resource group where you want the PMK cluster to show up.

  ```shell
  az group create -l <Azure Region> -n <resource group name>
  ```

  See below example of creating a resource group.
  ![Screenshot of Creating Resource Group](./03.png)

  You can verify it from the Azure portal.
  ![Screenshot of Resource Group](./20.png)
```

This should be part of the automation

## Deployment

This deployment consists of 3 sections.

  1. Onboarding the node to Platform9 Management Plane.
  2. Creating a PMK Cluster.
  3. Connect the cluster to Microsoft Azure Arc.

> **Onboarding the node to Platform9 Management Plane**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Onboarding the node to Platform9 Management Plane
```

Author: Corrected.

- Login to your Management Plane.

  ![Screenshot of PMK Management Plane Login Page](./04.png)

  > **Note: If you do not have a registered Management Plane with Platform9, you can create one easily using [PMK Free Tier deployment](https://platform9.com/managed-kubernetes/)**

- Onboard the Ubuntu host to your Management Plane.

>   For a BareOS cluster, you will need to have the nodes registered with the PMK Management Plane on which the cluster is to be deployed. For this, first add the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For a BareOS cluster, you will need to have the nodes registered with the PMK Management Plane on which the cluster is to be deployed. For this, first, add the node.
```

Author: Corrected.

  ![Screenshot of Onboarding a node](./05.png)

>   This should take you to the Node onboarding page. A **pf9ctl** utility is provided to setup the nodes and get connected with Management Plane.
>   Follow the instructions to download and install the utility, which we will use to prepare the node and connect it with your Platform9 Management Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This should take you to the Node onboarding page. A **pf9ctl** utility is provided to set up the nodes and get connected with Management Plane.
  Follow the instructions to download and install the utility, which we will use to prepare the node and connect it with your Platform9 Management Plane.
```

Author: Done.

  ![Screenshot of PF9 CLI](./06.png)

  > **Note: Preparing the node and connecting it to Management Plane might take approximately 4-5 minutes to complete.**

> **Creating a PMK Cluster**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a PMK Cluster
```

Author: Corrected.

> - The onboarded node should now be seen on our Management Plane. Now let's create a [PMK cluster](https://platform9.com/learn/learn/get-started-bare-metal) using that onboarded node.
> 
>   The cluster creation is done from the PMK Management Plane UI. The steps for cluster creation will follow as below,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The onboarded node should now be seen on our Management Plane. To create a [PMK cluster](https://platform9.com/learn/learn/get-started-bare-metal) via the PMK Management Plane UI, follow the steps as described below.
```

Author: Done

>   - Click to add cluster to the Management Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Click to add a cluster to the Management Plane.
```

Author: Corrected.

  ![Screenshot of Adding Cluster](./07.png)

  - Create a cluster from the nodes onboarded to the Management Plane.

  ![Screenshot of Creating One Click Cluster](./08.png)

  - Enter the cluster name and k8s version. Submit the page and it will trigger the cluster creation on the node.

  ![Screenshot of Cluster name entry](./09.png)

  - The cluster should get created in a few minutes and the status should be reported as **Healthy**.

>   ![Screenshot of Cluster Created](./10.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![Screenshot of Cluster Created](./10.png)
```

Would be good to add a red box around **Healthy**

Author: Image has been updated.

> **Connect the cluster to Microsoft Azure Arc**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect the cluster to Microsoft Azure Arc**
```

Author: Done.

> - Clone the [azure_arc](https://github.com/deepuks/azure_arc) Jumpstart repository and change to the pf9 script directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clone the [azure_arc](https://github.com/main/azure_arc) Jumpstart repository and change to the pf9 script directory.
```

Author: Changed the URL to https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc

  ```shell
  git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
  cd azure_arc/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/pf9
  ```

- Set the variables according to your Azure service principal name and Azure environment in the *pf9_az.env* file.

>   ![Screenshot of Exporting values](./11.png)

Reviewer: Would be good to better mask values

Author: Removed the pf9_az.env file and having the Azure env values exported into the pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh script.

  > **Note: The values can referenced from the service principal and resource groups outputs.**

- Set the KUBECONFIG variable for connecting to the K8s cluster. The kubeconfig file for the cluster is available for download from the Management Plane.

  ![Screenshot to Download Kubeconfig](./13.png)

>   - An example output is shown below for setting the KUBECONFIG variable;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example output is shown below for setting the KUBECONFIG variable;
```

Author: Done.

>   ![Screenshot to Export KUBECONFIG](./14.png)

Reviewer: What this screenshot is suppose to show in the context of the guide?

Author: This has been removed and changed to include in shell.

> - Run the pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh script to connect the Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK) cluster to Azure Arc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run the _pf9_az_connect_k8s.sh_ script to connect the Platform9 Managed Kubernetes (PMK) cluster to Azure Arc.
```

Author: Done.
